碩士班研究生畢業論文口試及離校說明事項Guidelines for the Master’s Degree Examination and Graduation Procedures畢業同學請仔細閱讀注意事項。Students are advised to read the following guidelines thoroughly.學位口試前 BEFORE THE EXAM修畢或當學期結束前可完成所上規定之應修科目與學分數，並完成論文初稿，且經指導教授同意者，得申請舉行碩士學位考試（論文口試）。All the required courses and credits shall be or will be completed before or during the semester in which the Master’s Degree Examination is held. Each student must prepare a thesis draft and have the advisor’s approval to apply for the examination (oral defense).碩士學位考試置考試委員三人至五人，指導教授為當然委員（與境外大學合作辦理雙聯學制不受此限），但不得為主持人，主持人由出席委員互推舉之；指導教授以外之考試委員人數應達二分之一（含）以上且考試委員中至少有一位為校外委員。A Master’s degree examination committee is comprised of three to five members. The advisor serves as a default member (joint/dual degree programs in cooperation with overseas academic institutions are not bound by this.) but cannot serve as the chair of the degree examination committee. The chair of the degree examination committee is nominated by attending members. The members administering the exam must represent greater than 1/2 of total committee members (excluding the advisor).學校補助每位同學三位至五位口試委員的口試費用。The university pays the standard fees to three to five examiners for each student’s Master’s degree examination.請先與指導教授詢問/討論口試日期、時間及口試委員名單後，再與口試委員確認口試日期及時間。於確認後，至電機系辦向謝素宜小姐預借口試場地。（指導教授為資工系教師之同學，口試場地請依資工系規定借用）Students must consult/discuss the potential exam date, time, and the members of examination committee with their advisors in advance and are responsible for contacting examiners and confirming their willingness and availability to participate. After that, students may contact Ms. Su-Yi Shieh in EE department office to reserve a room for the exam. (If the student’s advisor is the faculty of the CS department, he/she should follow the requirements of the CS department for room reservation)於口試日期的兩週前，請至校務資訊系統提出研究生學位考試申請。Students must submit the Master’s degree examination request through the Academic Information Systems no less than 2 weeks prior to the exam date.提出申請後，請立即繳交歷年成績單(紙本) 至所辦及email論文相似度比對報告給所辦。Immediately following the request submission, please submit the transcript for all semesters to the ICE office and email the electronic plagiarism detection results to the ICE office.申請通過後，所辦將寄送email聘函給各口試委員。如需紙本聘函，需先告知所辦印製並由學生自行寄送。Once the submission has been approved, the ICE office will send out an official notification of exam email, informing all examiners of the date, time and location. Hard copies of official notification are available upon request; however, they shall be sent to the examiners by students themselves.口試委員之交通費補助以台鐵自強號票價認列。如委員將搭乘高鐵，請務必事前告知所辦，俾利準備高鐵標準車廂費用。新竹地區及國外之口試委員恕不補助交通費用。External examiners shall be reimbursed for traveling expenses in accordance with the price of Tze-Chiang Limited Express operated by the Taiwan Railways Administration. If any external examiner will attend the exam by taking Taiwan High Speed Rail, the ICE office should be informed of this in advance for the purpose of transportation fee adjustment. The ICE office will not reimburse the examiners who reside in Hsinchu City/County or overseas.口試舉行前一天或當天至所辦公室領取 (1)口試委員口試費（含交通費）、(2)領據及(3)論文相似度比對報告確認單。Students should collect (1) the fee for examiners (including transportation fee), (2) receipts and (3) Plagiarism Detection Results Confirmed List from the ICE office on the same day or one business day prior to the exam.學位口試當天 ON THE DAY OF EXAM請自行準備以下紙本文件（第(1)~(3)由校務資訊系統列印），以供考試委員學位考試使用。通訊工程研究所研究生碩士論文口試評分單（每位口委各一張）國立清華大學碩士學位論文指導教授推薦書（一張）國立清華大學碩士學位論文考試委員審定書（一張）論文相似度比對報告確認單（一張，所辦提供）論文相似度比對報告、論文初稿（每位口委各一份）Students must prepare the following documentation in hard copy for the examiners. The (1)~(3) can be printed out through the Academic Information Systems.Institute of Communications Engineering Graduate Student Oral Defense Grade (one sheet for each examiner)National Tsing Hua University Master Thesis Advisor Approval Form (one sheet)National Tsing Hua University Master Thesis Oral Defense Form (one sheet)Plagiarism Detection Results Confirmed List (one sheet, offered by ICE office)Plagiarism detection results of Turnitin and dissertation draft (one copy for each examiner)論文相似度比對報告：目前學生可免費申請進行檢測比對，申請方式請至本校計算機與通訊中心網頁 → 教學服務 → 文章剽竊檢測工具Turnitin，進行線上申請。審核通過後，將提供開通帳號。申請者可先下載學生版使用手冊參考。The plagiarism detection checker, Turnitin, is only available for those who have applied for it. Students can go to the Computer & Communication Center website→ Learning Services → Plagiarism Checker (Turnitun) to fill out the application form. The Student’s Manual can be downloaded from the website as well. 學位口試後 AFTER THE EXAM口試完畢後，請立刻將以下文件繳交至所辦。研究生碩士論文口試評分單正本碩士學位論文指導教授推薦書影本碩士學位論文考試委員審定書影本論文相似度比對報告確認單正本口試委員簽名領據正本After the examination, please submit the following documentation to the ICE office immediately.The original of the Graduate Student Oral Defense GradeA photocopy of the Master Thesis Advisor Approval FormA photocopy of the Master Thesis Oral Defense FormThe original of the Plagiarism Detection Results Confirmed ListThe original receipt signed by the examiners論文完稿繳交 Final Thesis Submission電子論文上傳 Electronic Final Thesis Upload請詳細閱讀本校圖書館網頁有關博碩士論文的論文上傳說明後，至圖書館網站建立論文摘要相關資料及上傳論文全文電子檔。建檔完畢後，先由所辦公室初核，再轉由圖書館審核，待收到圖書館審核通過之電子郵件通知，即完成線上建檔作業。Please read the Library guidelines for the preparation and formatting requirements of electronic thesis submission on the Submission Guidelines section of the Library website. After being uploaded, the thesis will be reviewed by the ICE office first, followed by the Library. Once you receive a notification of approved thesis/dissertation email from the Library, the process of electronic thesis submission is completed.如欲延後公開送存國家圖書館之學位論文，需另填寫「國家圖書館學位論文延後公開申請書」(由圖書館網頁下載)及相關證明文件(表單請向通訊所辦索取)。If you would like to delay public access to your thesis/dissertation for the National Central Library, please complete the “Application for Embargo of Thesis/Dissertation” (available on the Library website) and provide proof of the reason for embargo of thesis/dissertation (the form is provided by the ICE office).紙本論文繳交 Bound Copy of Final Thesis Submission請先備妥兩本畢業論文紙本及論文全文電子檔。辦理離校時，紙本論文將繳交圖書館及註冊組，論文電子檔將繳交所辦。Two bound copies of the final thesis (for the Library and the Division of Registration) and the electronic full-text thesis (for the ICE office) are the required documentation for graduation and shall be prepared in advance.紙本論文內頁請依下列順序裝訂：國立清華大學博碩士論文電子檔著作權授權書（使用藍筆親簽）國立清華大學博碩士紙本論文著作權授權書（使用藍筆親簽）國家圖書館博碩士論文電子檔上網授權書（使用藍筆親簽）國立清華大學碩士學位論文指導教授推薦書（影本）國立清華大學碩士學位論文考試委員審定書（影本）The following documentation must be bounded in the thesis accordingly.Nation Tsing Hua University Authorization to Copyright of ETD (Electronic Thesis/Dissertation) (signed in blue ink)Nation Tsing Hua University Authorization to Copyright of Thesis/Dissertation  (signed in blue ink)Nation Central Library Authorization to Copyright of ETD (Electronic Thesis/Dissertation) (signed in blue ink)National Tsing Hua University Master Thesis Advisor Approval Form (photocopy)National Tsing Hua University Master Thesis Oral Defense Form (photocopy)口試委員審定書正本及指導教授推薦書正本自行保存。The student shall keep the original copy of Advisor Approval Form and Oral Defense Form.離校 GRADUATION PROCEDURES請先至註冊組網頁詳閱碩博士畢業相關說明，再依循下列步驟辦理離校。至校務資訊系統啟動「畢業生離校系統」至通訊所網頁填寫畢業生網路問卷（外籍生免填）至通訊所網頁下載「離校手續確認單」（填妥所列各欄內容並經指導教授簽名以示同意離校）攜帶以下文件至所辦離校手續確認單國立清華大學學位論文符合學術倫理聲明書論文電子檔審核通知單之電子郵件薪資紀錄（請至系務資訊系統 → 計畫差勤及臨時工登錄系統 → 助理登錄系統 → 點選右下角＋符號 → 助理歷史系統 → 列印生效工作項目中的支薪紀錄）論文全文電子檔（請email至通訊所辦信箱）論文全文紙本一本（所辦將連同畢業相關文件一同放入信封袋）至圖書館繳交論文紙本一本至註冊組繳交論文紙本一本（經所辦彌封）Students should read the Graduation Procedures for Graduate Students on the Division of Registration website first and follow the steps accordingly.Initiate the Graduation Application Process through the Academic Information SystemsFill out the ICE Graduation Questionnaire on the ICE website here. (domestic students only)Fill out the ICE Graduation Checklist (available on the ICE website here) and make sure that the advisor signs on it.Bring required documentation to ICE office.ICE Graduation ChecklistNational Tsing Hua University Thesis/Dissertation AffidavitThe notification of approved thesis/dissertation email from the LibrarySalary record (can be printed out through Academic Information Systems → Project Attendance Management and Temporary Working Hours Registration System → click ＋ Symbol on the bottom-right corner → Staff History System → The Effective Items)The Electronic full-text thesis (please email to comoffice@ee.nthu.edu.tw)One hard copy of the thesis (The ICE office will put it in an envelope along with the related documents )Submit one hard copy of the thesis at the Library circulationSubmit the hard copy of the thesis (packaged by ICE office) at the Division of Registration聯絡窗口 Staff Contacts如有任何疑問，請詢問所辦公室李幸佩小姐（分機34117、comoffice@ee.nthu.edu.tw）。For clarification on these guidelines or any other thesis and exam related questions, please get in touch with Ms. Hsin-Pei Li. (phone: 03-5715131#34117∣e-mail: comoffice@ee.nthu.edu.tw)